**COMPANIES BUSINESS FINANCIAL ANALYSIS REPORT**

**Name: Arun Akash Jawahar**

**Student Id: Q1036635**

**October Intake, Group 1**

**Date: 17/02/2023**

Statement of compliance with academic ethics and the avoidance of
plagiarism

I honestly declare that this assignment is entirely my own work and none
of its part has been copied from printed or electronic sources,
translated from foreign sources and reproduced from essays of other
resources or students. Wherever I have been based on ideas or other
people texts I clearly declare it through the good use of references
following academic ethics.

**ARUN AKASH JAWAHAR**

**17/02/2023\
TABLE OF CONTENT:**

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **S.no**   **Particulars**                                       
  ---------- ----------------------------------------------------- --------
  1          Introduction                                          

  1.1        Tesla                                                 

  2          Task 1                                                

  2.1        Financial statement review                            

  2.2        Stake holders of Tesla                                

  2.3        Measures to Corporate Governance                      

  2.4        Principal Agent Problem                               

  2.5        Impact of Pay-out policies                            

  3          Task 2                                                

  3.1        72 Rule                                               

  3.2        Double the investment                                 

  3.3        Securities to double the investment                   

  3.4        Two asset portfolios                                  

  4          Task 3                                                

  4.1        Beta Calculation                                      

  4.2        WACC calculation                                      

  4.3        Terminal value                                        

  4.4        Enterprise value                                      

  4.5        Implied share price                                   

  4.6        DCF                                                   

  5          Findings                                              

  6          Discussion                                            

  7          Reference                                             
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

<table border="0" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0" width="483" style="">
  <thead>
    <tr height="21" style="height: 16pt;">
      <th>Document Name</th>
      <th>Document Description</th>
      <th>Reference Link</th>
    </tr>
  </thead><colgroup><col width="185" style="width: 139pt;"><col width="211" style="width: 158pt;"><col width="87" style="width: 65pt;"></colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr height="21" style="height: 16pt;">
      <td height="21" class="xl65" style="padding-top: 1px; padding-right: 1px; padding-left: 1px; color: black; font-size: 12pt; font-family: Calibri, sans-serif; vertical-align: bottom; border-top: none; border-right: 0.5pt solid windowtext; border-bottom: 0.5pt solid windowtext; border-left: 0.5pt solid windowtext; border-image: initial; text-wrap: nowrap; height: 16pt;">CF.xlsx</td>
      <td style="padding-top: 1px; padding-right: 1px; padding-left: 1px; color: black; font-size: 12pt; font-family: Calibri, sans-serif; vertical-align: bottom; border: none; text-wrap: nowrap;"><div data-message-author-role="assistant" data-message-id="b0e82fd1-6f3e-4499-a622-1fd7ef948ca1" dir="auto">This File presents an in-depth analysis of Tesla, focusing on corporate governance, the principal-agent problem, and the impact of payout policies on agency theory. It also includes a DCF valuation to assess Tesla's stock value and offers investment recommendations for securities with high long-term growth potential.</div></td>
      <td class="xl65" style="padding-top: 1px; padding-right: 1px; padding-left: 1px; color: black; font-size: 12pt; font-family: Calibri, sans-serif; vertical-align: bottom; border-top: none; border-right: 0.5pt solid windowtext; border-bottom: 0.5pt solid windowtext; border-left: 0.5pt solid windowtext; border-image: initial; text-wrap: nowrap;"><a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1YNrpXysbW5ujInz3witAKlfRaFeWVgtJ/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=101120254477657136618&rtpof=true&sd=true"><img src="https://download.logo.wine/logo/Microsoft_Excel/Microsoft_Excel-Logo.wine.png" alt="BFA Excel" width="100" height="50">
</a></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**INTRODUCTION:**

In this assignment I made a complete study about the Tesla and reviewed
the share holders of tesla and the measures they are taking to ensure
corporate governance and the arrangements Tesla has taken to address
Principal agent problem. I also studied about the impact of pay-out
policies on agency theory. Finally, I have done a DCF calculation on
Tesla t find the Beta, WACC, Terminal value, Enterprise value and the
Implied value of the stock. This DCF will help to find the whether the
stock is overvalued or undervalued. In this study I have analysed some
securities which can double the investment in a period of 20 years and I
have given that suggestions.

**1.1 TESLA:**

Tesla, Inc. is a global American company with headquarters in Palo Alto,
California, that manufactures solar panels, electric automobiles, and
energy storage systems. Since its founding in 2003, the business has
grown to become both a leader in the production of electric cars and a
pioneer in the creation of sustainable energy sources. The Tesla Model
S, Model 3, Model X, and Model Y electric automobiles, as well as the
advancement of autonomous driving technologies, are the company\'s
best-known products. Elon Musk serves as the company\'s CEO. The goal of
Tesla is to hasten the global switch to renewable energy.

**TASK 1**

**2.1 Financial Statement Review:**

The financial statements of Tesla, Inc. would be examined in order to
determine their completeness, correctness, and conformity with widely
accepted accounting standards (GAAP). Information on Tesla\'s business
results, financial status, and liquidity would have been provided for
stakeholders through this assessment.

Revenue: Up from \$21.5 billion in 2019, Tesla\'s earnings has been
rising rapidly, and it\'ll reach \$24.6 billion in 2020. Tesla\'s
burgeoning energy storage business and higher demand for its electric
vehicles (EVs) also have driven to this expansion.

Gross Margin: Tesla will have a gross margin of 25.5% in 2020 as opposed
from only 21.9% in 2019. This improvement is partly attributable to the
company\'s expanding scale efficiencies and the ongoing expansion of its
highly profitable energy storage sector.

Net Income: With a net earnings of \$721 million in 2020 compared to a
deficit of \$862 million in 2019, Tesla seems to have been profitable in
previous years. The company\'s robust sales growth and rising gross
margins seem to be responsible for this development.

Cash Flow: Tesla has recently seen positive cash flow, and in 2020, the
industry will predict to generate operating cash flow of \$3.8 billion.
Due to its healthy cash flow, the firm has been able to support the
development of its production facilities as well as the creation of
additional EV models.

Balance sheet: At the end of 2020, Tesla has \$18.5 bn in cash and
equivalents. The company is indebted, with long-term debt totalling
\$12.5 billion as of the exact date.

**2.2 Stake holders of Tesla:**

Currently 3.01 billion shares of Tesla are outstanding, according to
information from Nasdaq. Who are Tesla\'s stakeholders?

According to WallStreetZen, institutional investors owned the biggest
block of shares at roughly 1.36 billion, and 43.01%, as of 5 December.
1.32 billion shares were owned by retail investors, representing a 41.9%
stake, rise from a 39.8% share early in the year. 476.4 million shares,
or 15.09% of both the stock, were held by company executives.

Tesla stands out from its competitors in the automotive sector because
insiders of the firm possess a substantial chunk of the company\'s
equity. Just 2% of US automaker Ford (F) shares are held by insiders,
compared to 12.56 percent of General Motors (GM) stock held by insiders.

Elon Musk owns 446.2 million shares of Tesla, or 14.13% of the shares of
a company, giving him the company\'s largest individual stakeholder.
This put Musk\'s equity in the business at a \$86.95 billion valuation.
Less than 1% is held by further Tesla executives.

Less Tesla stock is held by institutions than that of several of its
major rivals. According to WallStreetZen, institutions own around 80% of
the shares of General Motors, and over 63% with Rivian (RIVN), 53% in
Lucid Motor (LCID), and more over 49% of Ford.

**2.3 Measures for Corporate Governance:**

Tesla has implemented many new ideas to maintain corporate governance in
the firm after 2020. Some of the corporate governance activities of
tesla as follows.

Board of Directors Expansion: With an emphasis on boosting the range and
ability of its directors, Tesla welcomed two additional independent
non - executive directors to its board in 2020.

Executive Compensation: Tesla has created a new executive compensation
plan that links pay to the success and long-term viability of the
business. The new initiative aims to bring together the interests of the
shareholders of the company and its executives.

Shareholders Communication: Tesla has taken initiatives to enhance
shareholder communication, including having routine earnings calls and
interacting with investors via its investor relations website.

Shareholder Engagement: To better comprehend the issues and objectives
of its investors and also to give constant updates on its progress,
Tesla has developed a new stakeholder engagement program.

Governance Structure: In order to make sure that its governance
procedures are in line with best practices, Tesla has introduced new
governance practices and structures such as the formation of a Corporate
and Nominating Committee.

Climate & Sustainability: Tesla has emphasized lowering its carbon
footprint and switching to renewable energy sources as a key component
among its corporate governance plan.

**2.4 Principal Agent Problem:**

The conflict of interests that can develop in between company\'s
management (called agent) and its shareholders (the principals) as a
result of divergent aims and objectives is known as the principal-agent
dilemma.  Tesla have put in place a variety of institutional mechanisms
to coordinate the interests of shareholders and management in order to
overcome this issue.

Some of the steps taken by Tesla to counter this issue are as follows,

Performance-based remuneration: Tesla has established a compensation
plan for its executives which is dependent on the success of the
business and the value of its shares. This guarantees that management is
driven to operate in the best interest of the company and helps to align
the goals of owners and management.

Shareholders Activism: Tesla has a long history of shareholder activism,
in which investors can have an impact on the company\'s choices via
voting on proposals, attending shareholder meetings, and participating
in activism activities. This enables it to guarantee that management is
answerable to stakeholders and also that their objectives are taken into
account when making decisions for the business.

Board of directors: The board of directors of Tesla is in charge of
supervising company management and assuring that it acts in the
company\'s and its shareholders\' best interests. The board works make
ensure that the company\'s activities are in line with the interest of
its owners and acts as a source of responsibility for management.

Corporate governance: Tesla had implemented solid risk management
procedures in place, as well as independent directors, transparent
reporting, and independent directors. This makes it possible to ensure
that the business is properly managed and that its interests coincide
with those of its shareholders.

**2.5 Impact of Pay-out policies:**

Agency theory, which discusses the connection between principals (such
as shareholders) and agents (such as managers) in a corporation, may be
significantly impacted by pay-out rules. The goal of agency theory is to
comprehend how incentives and actions of agents might conflict with the
interests of their principals and how such conflicts can be handled.

Some of the impact of pay-out policies on agency theory are as follows,

Interest Alignment: Pay-out policies that emphasize dividend payments or
share repurchases can aid in balancing the goals of management and
shareholders. Managers have a financial incentive to put shareholders\'
interests first when they get a piece of the profits via dividends or
share buybacks.

Reducing Agency costs: Pay-out rules can help cut the agency costs
driven from the misalignment of shareholder and management incentives.
Management is less inclined to participate in actions that aren\'t in
the good interests of the firm and its shareholders if gains are
distributed to shareholders.

Encouraging Risk-Taking: Payment policies that encourage capital
appreciation or reinvestment in the corporation can inspire executives
to take on greater risk. Long-term, this may be advantageous for the
business and its shareholders, but it may also create conflicts of
concern if management takes a risk that aren\'t in the best interests of
shareholders.

**TASK 2**

**3.1 72 Rule:**

The 72 rule gives the approx. rate of return needed to double the
investment.

> Rate of return = $\frac{72}{Number\ of\ years}$
>
> = 72/20
>
> = 3.6%

Hereby we can conclude that we need a minimum of 3.6% to double our
investment in 20 years.

**3.2 Double the Investment:**

The safest and easiest way to double your investment on 20 years is
Government Bonds.

The minimum yield of 10 years government bond is US = 3.74%

The minimum yield of 20 years government bond in US = 3.86%

The minimum yield of 10 years government bond in India = 7.3%

If you are taking this investment alone which is fully safe and you can
easily double the amount.

**3.3 Securities to Double the Investment:**

[APPLE Inc (AAPL)]{.underline} is the first choice of investment for me,
I choose Apple Inc because of the following reasons.

-   It gave a return of 26.75% in the last 10 years.

-   Apple has a Market capitalisation of over 2 trillion dollars.

-   They have a healthy financial statement and proper governance.

-   Technology will run future world; Apple is working on technology
    sector which is an added positivity.

> Some other recommendations for the securities to double the
> investments are follows

[Amazon.com Inc (AMZN)]{.underline}: Amazon gave a return of around 37%
over the past 100 years and it has a market cap of over 1.5 trillion
dollars. Logistics is a evergreen sector and amazon is in the top of the
sector.

[Microsoft Corporation (MSFT]{.underline}): Microsoft produces a return
of over 22% in the past decade. Microsoft plays an important role in
technology development, so they are yet to grow in a full extent.
Microsoft have a market capital of around 2 trillion dollars.

[Nvidia Corporation (NVDA):]{.underline} The main reason why I mentioned
it in the portfolio is because the craze for gaming will never end, so
they have a great growth potential. Nvidia already producing a return of
around 48% over the past 10 years and has a market value of 500 billion
dollars.

[PayPal Holdings Inc (PYPL):]{.underline} PayPal plays a vital role in
the finance sector; they have given a return of 26% over the past decade
and PayPal has a market capitalisation of around 300 billion dollars.

[Adobe Inc (ADBE):]{.underline} Adobe Inc has produced a return of 27%
over the past 10 years. They have a market cap of 300 billion dollars
and has a good fundamental. Adobes software development gives a major
boost in the information technology sector.

**3.4 Two Asset Portfolio:**

The two-asset portfolio which I am suggesting are

-   50 % of the capital should be invested in government bonds for a
    yield period of 10 years which gives a return of 7.3% that is

= 0.5 million \* 3.86%

= 8.87 million

-   Remaining 50% in Apple Inc which gives an average return of 26% for
    10 years, for worst case scenario we can assume it is giving a
    return of 15% return on 20 years.

> = 0.5 million \* 15%
>
> = 20 million
>
> Total = 20 + 8.87 million
>
> =28.8 million will be your return at the end period.

I chose these securities because they have a good return and less or
risk.

**TASK 3**

**4.1 BETA Calculation:**

BETA measures the volatility and the systematic risk in accrued with the
security or a portfolio comparing with the market as whole.

β =$\frac{Covariance(ri,rm)}{variance(rm)}$

β = 1.515175

I have used excel to calculate the BETA value and I have attached the
excel copy for your reference.

**4.2 WACC Calculation:**

Weighted average cost of capital denotes how much cost occurs to raise
the capital, it measures both equity and debt source of capital.

WACC = (% Equity\* Cost of equity) + (% Debt\*cost of debt\*(1-Tax
rate))

Cost of Equity = Risk free rate+ (Beta\* market risk premium)

Cost of Equity = 6+(1.515\*8)

=18.12%

WACC = (56% \* 18.12%) + (44% \* 2.5% \* (1-10%))

WACC = 11.10%

I have used excel to calculate the WACC value and I have attached the
excel copy for your reference.

**4.3 Terminal Value:**

It is used to determine the future value of an investment. It takes the
future free cash flow of the firm and discounts it the present value.

TV= $\frac{FCF*(1 + growth\ rate)}{(WACC - growth\ rate)}$

TV= 319294.1

I have used excel to calculate the Terminal value and I have attached
the excel copy for your reference.

**4.4 Enterprise Value:**

It is the total value of the company for the estimated period.

EV = Sum of present FCF of forecasted period + Terminal value

EV = 431709

I have used excel to calculate the Enterprise value and I have attached
the excel copy for your reference.

**4.5 Implied share value:**

It is the estimated share price of the company if it is performing to
our assumptions. This value is used to estimate whether the share is
trading in a discounted value or is it over valued.

Implied value = $\frac{EV + Cash - Debt}{Outstanding\ shares}$

Implied Value = 137.51

**4.6 DCF:**

Discounted Cash Flow analysis which is used to discount the companies
forecasted FCF to present value. It is also used to find the implied
share price of the firm which helps us to make the investment decisions.

I have made a complete DCF analysis on Tesla and attached it below.

![](./media/image1.emf)

**5 FINDINGS:**

-   We analysed the financial statements of Tesla and gone through the
    shareholders of the firm.

-   We studied about the measures taken by Tesla to ensure adequate
    corporate governance and Principal agent problems.

-   We study about the impact of pay-out policies on agency theory.

-   By analysing the securities and the market we made some investment
    decisions which will double our investments in a period of 20 years.
    The securities are

    -   Government Bonds

    -   Apple Inc

    -   Amazon.com Inc

    -   Microsoft Corporation

    -   Nvidia Corporation

    -   PayPal Holdings Inc

    -   Adobe Inc

-   By calculations we found the BETA value of Tesla as **1.515**

-   The WACC value of Tesla is found as **11.10%**

-   The Terminal value of Tesla for the projection period is
    **319294.1**

-   The Enterprise value of Tesla is **431709**

-   By using all the finds we fount the implied value of Tesla share is
    **137.51**

**6 DISCUSSIONS:**

From Task 1 we came to know about the financial summary of Tesla and the
measures they are taking to maintain the governance of the firm.

From task 2 we studied the securities and their growth potential and
finalised an investment portfolio for doubling our amount in a period of
20 years.

From Task 3 we found the implied share price of Tesla which is \$137.51
but the share is trading around \$200, which means the shares of Tesla
is highly overrated and trading in high premium. One more reason to get
low implied share price is because of our assumptions, we assumed the
revenue growth will be 10 % every year but in will be differed in
reality.

**7 REFERENCES:**

-   Allen, F. and Michaely, R., 2003. Payout policy. *Handbook of the
    Economics of Finance*, *1*, pp.337-429.

-   Ho, C.K., 2005. Corporate governance and corporate competitiveness:
    an international analysis. *Corporate Governance: An International
    Review*, *13*(2), pp.211-253.

-   Vélez-Pareja, I. and Tham, J., 2009. Market value calculation and
    the solution of circularity between value and the weighted average
    cost of capital WACC. *RAM. Revista de Administração
    Mackenzie*, *10*, pp.101-131.

-   Rehman, R. and Raoof, A., 2010. Weighted average cost of capital
    (WACC) traditional vs new approach for calculating the value of
    firm. *International Research Journal of Finance and
    Economics*, *45*, pp.7-9.

-   Fedorenko, E. and Shain, C., 2021. Similarity of computations across
    domains does not imply shared implementation: The case of language
    comprehension. *Current Directions in Psychological
    Science*, *30*(6), pp.526-534.

-   Inselbag, I. and Kaufold, H., 1997. Two DCF approaches for valuing
    companies under alternative financing strategies (and how to choose
    between them). *Journal of applied corporate finance*, *10*(1),
    pp.114-122.

-   Oded, J. and Michel, A., 2007. Reconciling DCF valuation
    methodologies. *Journal of Applied Finance*, *17*(2), p.21.
